Changelog for Tempus Themes Generator
=====================================

Latest version is at the top. Versioning follows semver specs, with the
date appended in the form of YYMMDD.

NOTE. No actual release tags are made available. While this script
'works' for my limited use case, it is not tested for widespread use,
nor is it a technically good piece of programming.

0.25.0.20190330
---------------

Add backgrounddim key in the "shell-variables" template.  This specific
template is meant to be used in scripts.  It is implemented in my
dotfiles: https://gitlab.com/protesilaos/dotfiles

0.24.0.20190324
---------------

Full review of the Autumn scheme.  The entire colour palette has
undergone changes.  See commit cefa55f4bb12bf754a5568da1eb5ab4e16c27e13.

Minor review of the Dawn scheme.  Tweaked the base background and
foreground values, to make them less stark.  For the full diff, see
d8f84932fcf36baef8f96eb4cbf415cc22748d21.

Major review of the Future scheme.  Kept the same look, but addressed
some major flaws.  See 9897a596cc0b2607730506454c82f665dc0027eb.

Minor review of the Night scheme.  Improve the distinction between green
and cyan: 62286af9aad831c72786dbb19b88f7015ccef3d7.

Major review of the Spring scheme.  Improved the uniqueness of most
colours in the palette: a6481c080bcb0f3173e32c08feae930dd5bc05d3.

Major review of the Summer scheme.  Made colours more unique and
distinct from each other: c0499033b24b36570ffc8805b1c6a6a2984cb27a.

Major review of the Winter scheme.  Again the intention is to improve
clarity: c497e8aad201b6d018551f0d4935e4aad4e5a006.

0.23.0.20190223
---------------

Change the formatting of this file from Markdown to plain text.

Refactor Tempus Day palette.  The intention is three-fold: (i)
disambiguate it from Tempus Fugit, (ii) make the two background values
more distinguishable from each other, and (iii) harmonise the overall
balance of the theme in terms of the contrast between the base
foregrounds/backgrounds and that of the accent values.

Below is the full diff:

	-col0=3b2820        # black variant
	-col1=d62500        # red variant
	-col2=207f20        # green variant
	-col3=8a6900        # yellow variant
	-col4=306ad0        # blue variant
	-col5=c6365d        # magenta variant
	-col6=00798d        # cyan variant
	-col7=f5f0f5        # white variant
	-col8=5b4440        # bright black variant
	-col9=bb4b00        # bright red variant
	-col10=5a7800       # bright green variant
	-col11=9a6033       # bright yellow variant
	-col12=6061d0       # bright blue variant
	-col13=8850d0       # bright magenta variant
	-col14=007c6d       # bright cyan variant
	-col15=f8f1e0       # bright white variant
	+col0=464340        # black variant
	+col1=c81000        # red variant
	+col2=107410        # green variant
	+col3=806000        # yellow variant
	+col4=385dc4        # blue variant
	+col5=b63052        # magenta variant
	+col6=007070        # cyan variant
	+col7=eae9dd        # white variant
	+col8=68607d        # bright black variant
	+col9=b94000        # bright red variant
	+col10=4a7240       # bright green variant
	+col11=706a00       # bright yellow variant
	+col12=0d66c9       # bright blue variant
	+col13=8055aa       # bright magenta variant
	+col14=337087       # bright cyan variant
	+col15=f8f2e5       # bright white variant

0.22.0.20190123
---------------

Add `gtksourcevie4` template file.  This is mainly to support Gnome
Builder themes.

Change the value for current line highlight in `gtksourceview3`.  See
next point.

New feature: background dim colour.  This is achieved by processing and
combining the two bg values of each scheme.  The relevant code is added
in each item inside the schemes directory.  For the time being, the dim
bg is used only in gtksourceview{3,4} to draw the background of the
current line (when it is configured to be highlighted), but may be
incorporated elsewhere in future versions.

Expand the README with documentation on how to use GTK Source View 4.

Make all colour values lower case in `schemes/past`.

0.21.0.20181118
---------------

Add "alt" variants to the foreground and background variables in
"shell-variables".

0.20.0.20181031 
---------------

Update `st` template to use custom colour references for the default
values for background, foreground, cursor, and mouse.

Here is the comment included in the template, in case some advanced user
is interested about the rationale:

    /*
     * PRO TIP: this is good when trying to dynamically change from a
     * dark to a light theme or vice versa using ANSI escape sequences.
     *
     * Scenario:
     *
     * If on a dark theme we set defaultbg = 0 (with 15 being the
     * defaultfg), then changing the value of '0' to what would be
     * appropriate for a light theme (e.g. #ffffff) would turn the
     * background white, when what we really wanted was to alter the
     * foreground.
     * That is because the assumption for the design of the Tempus
     * themes is that colour codes represent colours.  So if a light
     * theme needs a black foregound, it must use color0.  Whereas
     * others default to defining the value of color0 as equivalent to
     * background regardless of the colour value (and color15 as the
     * foreground in the same way).  I think this is semantically
     * incorrect and might cause problems.
     *
     * For working examples, see my dotfiles, specifically the
     * `own_script_update_running_terminals` under the "bin" directory:
     * https://gitlab.com/protesilaos/dotfiles.  Note that this script
     * is invoked from the `own_script_update_environment_theme`, which
     * is typically interfaced via the `tempusmenu`.
     */

0.19.0.20181030 
---------------

1. Fix links that used to point to the old git URL.  The Tempus Themes
   are all hosted on GitLab.
2. Restyle the documents so that hard lines are in place of visual
   wrapping.  Markdown processors such as Kramdown recognise hard breaks
   as part of a contiguous paragraph.  So seeing this as rendered HTML
   should be no different.
3. Add support for the `Kitty` terminal emulator.

0.18.0.20180929
---------------

ADDED. `classic`, a dark theme with warm hues. WCAG AA.

0.17.0.20180809
---------------

UPDATE. Reviewed schemes. Refined colours of older items for improved
presentation, while keeping with each one's character. Affected schemes:

* autumn
* fugit
* future
* past
* rift
* spring
* summer
* totus
* warp
* winter

0.16.0.20180807
---------------

ADDED. `tempest` a dark, green-scale theme. WCAG AAA.

0.15.0.20180708
---------------

UPDATE. Completed migration to Gitlab. Updated links.

0.14.0.20180708
---------------

ADDED. `day` (WCAG AA), `night` (WCAG AAA).

0.13.0.20180315
---------------

Changes to `st` template to be consistent with st 0.8 (released
2018-03-14).

0.12.0.20180308
---------------

Rewrote the `tempus-themes-generator.sh`. No breaking changes, even
though the script was written anew. The new script offers some extra
features compared to the original: 

1. running the script without any argument will print a detailed help
   message
2. passing a scheme name as a single argument will print a timed preview
   to the terminal's output

Otherwise, the script has been made to leverage Bash functions and, in
general, is more robust to handling errors. Also, it is heavily
documented to help any contributors with familiarising themselves with
what is going on. Still, there are areas it could be improved further.
These are noted in the inline comments.

0.11.0.20180306
---------------

ADDED. `dawn` and `dusk`, a light and a dark scheme with a slightly
desaturated palette. Both are WCAG AA compliant.

FIXED. An error in the rgb conversion of the colour values, where col1
(red) was erroneously defined as col11 (bright yellow).

Minor changes to the formatting of comments in all schemes.

0.10.0.20180304
---------------

Add template so `st` ("simple terminal" from suckless.org). No
installation instructions are provided as each st setup can vary
considerably. It is assumed that users of this program already know how
to use this template's output.

0.9.0.20180225
--------------

Add template for Konsole, the default KDE terminal. Update README
accordingly.

Now every item under `schemes` converts HEX colours to RGB using shell
variable expansion. The inclusion of RGB definitions is a prerequisite
to developing new templates for applications that do not support HEX
values.

0.8.1.20180224
--------------

Add template for shell variables. There are no instructions for this,
just as with the `yaml` template. The idea is that this generates
a generic file that can be used in some custom setup. For a working
example, see my dmenu wrapper scripts from my dotfiles:
https://gitlab.com/protesilaos/fotfiles (search them under "bin" and
then follow the path they reference).

0.8.0.20180224
--------------

Added Tempus Rift (dark theme, WCAG AA compliant). Its design is similar
to Tempus Warp and Tempus Fugit, i.e. base values have a 4.50:1
contrast, while bright values have a 5.50:1. Tempus Rift is making more
liberal use of the green value. Every colour has a higher dose of green,
thus resulting in a subdued, moderately green-ish palette.

0.7.3.20180216
--------------

The generator script is now configured to omit any line that specifies
the Vi filetype in the source files. This is done by using a reverse
grep pipe. That content is not needed by applications that use the
output files.

About vi filetype declarations: I use that option to tell Vim what
syntax highlighting to apply on an extensionless file (all the files
under `schemes` and `templates`. Knowledge of the filetype is also
needed to use the appropriate comment format with Vim's commenter
plugin.

0.7.2.20180214
--------------

General refinements to the Vim template. Some notes:

* The 'popup' menu for autocompletion has better colours for foreground,
  background, and selection. Their font attributes have also been
  adjusted. List items are italicised, while the selection is bold.
* The `Title` construct now has the main background value specified as
  its bg. In the editor this should not be visible. Where it appears is
  on the tab list, specifically when the tab is active, and has multiple
  buffers. The active tab use the default foreground colour as its
  backdrop, which would normally obscure the `Title`. With this tweak,
  the `Title` will still be visible as it will be drawn on the default
  bg.

0.7.1.20180213
--------------

Upon further testing it appears that Atom does not behave as one would
expect of text editors. For instance, one cannot change the colour of
the foreground in a selected region, because that is a different div
(Atom is a text editor based on Electron, which is basically a highly
configured web browser). The cursor behaves similarly.

Some online source make reference to some shadow DOM but they are
under-documented.

Workarounds would require creating new colours and/or violating the
contrast ratio of each scheme (for example a semi-transparent selection
background). That is outside the scope of the Tempus Themes project. An
accessible theme should be accessible throughout.

Furthermore, and unlike Vim, Atom's code construct definitions leave
something to be desired. A case in point: in my last test, the
definition of shell variables was not being picked up, so that in the
case of `some_definition=some_value` the `some_definition` could only be
styled as generic shell source. But passing styles to that would affect
all shell source text, which is not desired.

Ultimately, styling Atom is a rather inelegant, tedious piece of work.
For the time being, the Atom-related template files are being removed
from the Tempus Themes generator. Atom will only be reconsidered once
its theming is stabilised and well documented.

0.7.0.20180213
--------------

~~Initial support for Atom editor syntax theme packages. Not all
`atom-*` templates expand generator variables. They are just located
here to build a complete package from a single source. For a script that
builds these packages refer to the `export-atom.sh` in the
tempus-themes-utils repository:
https://gitlab.com/protesilaos/tempus-themes-utils.~~

REMOVE SUPPORT FOR ATOM. SEE VERSION `0.7.1.20180213`.

0.6.1.20180213
--------------

Each theme now has a meta data definition for its WCAG compliance.

Theme variant (light or dark) is now part of meta data section. The
previous approach was to declare this in the "base" defaults.

Templates have been adapted to the new theme variant variable.

0.6.0.20180211
--------------

Added Tempus Fugit (light theme, WCAG AA compliant). Its design is
similar to Tempus Warp, i.e. base values have a 4.50:1 contrast, while
bright values have a 5.50:1.

0.5.2.20180211
--------------

The YAML template now includes more information about the theme.

0.5.1.20180210
--------------

All templates now make better use of each scheme's meta data.

Define scheme name slug with an underscore instead of just with a hyphen
(for cases where a hyphen is not appropriate).

0.5.0.20180209
--------------

Added template for Tilix (formerly Terminix). This is a modern terminal
emulator, targeted at GNOME users.

0.4.0.20180206
--------------

Added a template for gtksourceview-3.0. This is the tool that is used by
applications running on the GTK3 widget toolkit to highlight code
syntax. Some common apps are Gedit (GNOME default), Pluma (MATE
default), and Xed (Linux Mint Cinnamon default).

All schemes now contain a set of variables that contain their meta data,
such as full name, description, etc.

0.3.0.20180121
--------------

Added Tempus Warp (dark theme, WCAG AA compliant)

URxvt now uses a colour for the text under the cursor block.

Vim's search results and incremental search highlighting have been
improved. It is now easier to distinguish the cursor from highlighted
searches.

0.2.0.20171216
--------------

Added two new schemes:

* Tempus Future (dark theme, WCAG AAA compliant)
* Tempus Past (light theme, WCAG AA compliant)

0.1.0.20171119
--------------

Available themes:

	autumn  spring  summer  totus  winter

Available templates:

	urxvt  vim  xfce4-terminal  xterm  yaml
